README.md, before:

# fli-docker

The `fli-docker` utility is designed to simplify the deployment of stateful applications inside Docker containers.

This is achieved through creation of a Flocker Hub Stateful Application Manifest (SAM) file (aka. "manifest"), which essentially acts as a wrapper to a Docker Compose file.
The SAM file is a YAML file that defines data volumes from [ClusterHQ](https://clusterhq.com)'s Flocker Hub,
synchronizes data snapshots locally, and maps them to Docker volumes in the underlying Docker Compose file.

## Usage

To utilize the ClusterHQ `fli-docker` utility, examine the following command line arguments.

```
fli-docker --help
Usage of fli-docker:
  -c --compose-arguments string
    	Options to pass to Docker Compose such as 'up -d' (default "up")
  -f --manifest string
    	Stateful application manifest file (default "manifest.yml")
  -t --token string
    	Flocker Hub user token
  -u --username string
    	Flocker Hub username
  -e --endpoint string
    	Flocker Hub endpoint
```

### Example

You can use the example here in this repository. Follow the below instructions.

#### Install `fli-docker`
TODO (install fli, docker-compose, fli-docker)

#### Run the example
```
$ git clone https://github.com/ClusterHQ/fli-docker/

$ cd fli-docker/examples/redis-moby

$ fli-docker -f fli-manifest.yml 
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found Command: docker-compose version
2016/09/20 20:38:28 docker-compose Ready!

2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found path: /opt/clusterhq/bin/dpcli
2016/09/20 20:38:28 fli Ready!

2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found file: fli-manifest.yml
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found file: docker-compose-app1.yml
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Syncing Volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Running sync on volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:31 []
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Pulling Snapshot 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Running pull for snapshot: 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:38:31 []
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Syncing Volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Running sync on volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:34 []
2016/09/20 20:38:34 Pulling Snapshot 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:38:34 Running pull for snapshot: 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:38:34 []
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating Volume from 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating volume off snapshot 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8...[OK]
Volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
Working Copy ID: 5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae
Working Copy Path: /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating Volume from 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating volume off snapshot 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4...[OK]
Volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
Working Copy ID: cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7
Working Copy Path: /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7
2016/09/20 20:13:34 version: "2.0"
services:
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    networks:
      default: {}
    volumes:
    - /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae:/data
  web:
    environment:
    - USE_REDIS_HOST=redis
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    links:
    - redis
    networks:
      default: {}
    ports:
    - 80:80
    volumes:
    - /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7:/myapp/artifacts/
volumes: {}
networks: {}

$ cat docker-compose-app1.yml
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    environment:
       - "USE_REDIS_HOST=redis"
    links:
      - redis
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    volumes:
      - /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7:/myapp/artifacts/
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    volumes:
       - '/chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae:/data'

$ docker-compose -f docker-compose-app1.yml up -d
Pulling web (clusterhq/moby-counter:dcsea)...
dcsea: Pulling from clusterhq/moby-counter
a3ed95caeb02: Pull complete
93a86e942d51: Pull complete
faecfcc1d7ff: Pull complete
ddf3e3db435e: Pull complete
81a4604c1077: Pull complete
f8f4d4eabd85: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:e11ed56f5dad87ddef9865e758067ae6a182c234d9f10d1cf5c2a7d18a811eea
Status: Downloaded newer image for clusterhq/moby-counter:dcsea
Creating redismoby_redis_1
Creating redismoby_web_1
[root@ip-10-0-40-199 redis-moby]# docker-compose -f docker-compose-app1.yml ps
      Name                     Command               State         Ports        
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
redismoby_redis_1   docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp           
redismoby_web_1     node index.js                    Up      0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp 

$ docker inspect -f "{{.Mounts}}" redismoby_redis_1
[{ /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7 /myapp/artifacts  rw true rprivate}]
$ docker inspect -f "{{.Mounts}}" redismoby_web_1
[{ /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae /data  rw true rprivate}]

```

## Stateful Application Manifest (SAM)

The Stateful Application Manifest (SAM) looks similar to a Docker Compose file, with a few key changes.

- The `volume_hub` node references an `endpoint` and a valid `auth_token`
- The volumes are defined by name, and each reference a `snapshot` and `volumeset`

The `fli-docker` utility takes a `docker-compose.yml` file as input, and translates
volumes in the Docker Compose file to Flocker Hub snapshots.

> Important Note: Right now, this only works with "named volumes" (see below)

(Compose File Reference Link](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#/volumes-volume-driver)

```
# Named volume
  - datavolume:/var/lib/mysql
```

An example of a Stateful App Manifest (SAM) YAML file could be `dev-manifest.yml` below. Notice, under the `volumes:` section of the 
manifest, that each named volume references a `volumeset` and a `snapshot`.
You can obtain these identifiers from the Flocker Hub user interface, or the `fli` command line utility.
Documentation about the Flocker Hub product itself can be found at [ClusterHQ Documentation](https://clusterhq.com).

```yaml
docker_app: docker-compose-app1.yml

flocker_hub:
    endpoint: http://<ip|dnsname>:<port>
    auth_token: 021e3d0f-9ad3-49dc-8d0a-dbe96a0477dc

volumes:
    - name: redis-data
      snapshot: 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
      volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
    - name: artifacts
      snapshot: 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
      volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
```

The Docker Compose file that the SAM file leverages would be:

```yaml
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    environment:
       - "USE_REDIS_HOST=redis"
    links:
      - redis
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    volumes:
      - artifacts:/myapp/artifacts/
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    volumes:
       - 'redis-data:/data'
```

In this case, the CLI commands above would perform the necessary `pull` and `create`
commands with fli and manipulate the docker-compose file so that when it is brought up
it can be brought up with your snapshots layed out in the manifest.

- `artifacts` would become snapshot : `02d474fa-ab81-4bcb-8a61-a04214896b67`
- `redis-data` would become snapshot: `be4b53d2-a8cf-443f-a672-139b281acf8f`

### Notes

- You may run this from anywhere `docker-compose`, `docker` and `fli` are installed.
- Snapshots would need to be pushed to volumesets in ClusterHQ Flocker Hub using a manifest that references them, otherwise `pull` will fail.

Commit message:

update readme and manifest to have no auth token

README.md, after:

# fli-docker

The `fli-docker` utility is designed to simplify the deployment of stateful applications inside Docker containers.

This is achieved through creation of a Flocker Hub Stateful Application Manifest (SAM) file (aka. "manifest"), which is used side by side with the Docker Compose file.
The SAM file is a YAML file that defines data volumes from [ClusterHQ](https://clusterhq.com)'s Flocker Hub,
synchronizes data snapshots locally, and maps them to Docker volumes in the Docker Compose file.

## Usage

To utilize the ClusterHQ `fli-docker` utility, examine the following command line arguments.

```
fli-docker --help
Usage of fli-docker:
  -c --compose-arguments string
    	Options to pass to Docker Compose such as 'up -d' (default "up")
  -f --manifest string
    	Stateful application manifest file (default "manifest.yml")
  -t --token string
    	Flocker Hub user token
  -u --username string
    	Flocker Hub username
  -e --endpoint string
    	Flocker Hub endpoint
```

### Example

You can use the example here in this repository. Follow the below instructions.

#### Install `fli-docker`
TODO (install fli, docker-compose, fli-docker)

#### Run the example
```
$ git clone https://github.com/ClusterHQ/fli-docker/

$ cd fli-docker/examples/redis-moby

$ fli-docker -f fli-manifest.yml 
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found Command: docker-compose version
2016/09/20 20:38:28 docker-compose Ready!

2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found path: /opt/clusterhq/bin/dpcli
2016/09/20 20:38:28 fli Ready!

2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found file: fli-manifest.yml
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Found file: docker-compose-app1.yml
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Syncing Volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:28 Running sync on volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:31 []
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Pulling Snapshot 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Running pull for snapshot: 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:38:31 []
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Syncing Volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:31 Running sync on volumeset 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
2016/09/20 20:38:34 []
2016/09/20 20:38:34 Pulling Snapshot 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:38:34 Running pull for snapshot: 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:38:34 []
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating Volume from 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating volume off snapshot 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8...[OK]
Volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
Working Copy ID: 5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae
Working Copy Path: /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating Volume from 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
2016/09/20 20:13:34 Creating volume off snapshot 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4...[OK]
Volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
Working Copy ID: cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7
Working Copy Path: /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7
2016/09/20 20:13:34 version: "2.0"
services:
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    networks:
      default: {}
    volumes:
    - /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae:/data
  web:
    environment:
    - USE_REDIS_HOST=redis
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    links:
    - redis
    networks:
      default: {}
    ports:
    - 80:80
    volumes:
    - /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7:/myapp/artifacts/
volumes: {}
networks: {}

$ cat docker-compose-app1.yml
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    environment:
       - "USE_REDIS_HOST=redis"
    links:
      - redis
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    volumes:
      - /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7:/myapp/artifacts/
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    volumes:
       - '/chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae:/data'

$ docker-compose -f docker-compose-app1.yml up -d
Pulling web (clusterhq/moby-counter:dcsea)...
dcsea: Pulling from clusterhq/moby-counter
a3ed95caeb02: Pull complete
93a86e942d51: Pull complete
faecfcc1d7ff: Pull complete
ddf3e3db435e: Pull complete
81a4604c1077: Pull complete
f8f4d4eabd85: Pull complete
Digest: sha256:e11ed56f5dad87ddef9865e758067ae6a182c234d9f10d1cf5c2a7d18a811eea
Status: Downloaded newer image for clusterhq/moby-counter:dcsea
Creating redismoby_redis_1
Creating redismoby_web_1
[root@ip-10-0-40-199 redis-moby]# docker-compose -f docker-compose-app1.yml ps
      Name                     Command               State         Ports        
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
redismoby_redis_1   docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp           
redismoby_web_1     node index.js                    Up      0.0.0.0:80->80/tcp 

$ docker inspect -f "{{.Mounts}}" redismoby_redis_1
[{ /chq/cc68b88a-e811-46d3-a629-9cc1ae147cf7 /myapp/artifacts  rw true rprivate}]
$ docker inspect -f "{{.Mounts}}" redismoby_web_1
[{ /chq/5a12c51f-569d-4f59-9713-3c2d48af30ae /data  rw true rprivate}]

```

## Stateful Application Manifest (SAM)

The Stateful Application Manifest (SAM) looks similar to a Docker Compose file, with a few key changes.

- The `volume_hub` node references an `endpoint` and a valid `auth_token`
- The volumes are defined by name, and each reference a `snapshot` and `volumeset`

The `fli-docker` utility takes a `docker-compose.yml` file as input, and translates
volumes in the Docker Compose file to Flocker Hub snapshots.

> Important Note: Right now, this only works with "named volumes" (see below)

(Compose File Reference Link](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/#/volumes-volume-driver)

```
# Named volume
  - datavolume:/var/lib/mysql
```

An example of a Stateful App Manifest (SAM) YAML file could be `dev-manifest.yml` below. Notice, under the `volumes:` section of the 
manifest, that each named volume references a `volumeset` and a `snapshot`.
You can obtain these identifiers from the Flocker Hub user interface, or the `fli` command line utility.
Documentation about the Flocker Hub product itself can be found at [ClusterHQ Documentation](https://clusterhq.com).

```yaml
docker_app: docker-compose-app1.yml

flocker_hub:
    endpoint: http://<ip|dnsname>:<port>

volumes:
    - name: redis-data
      snapshot: 1ef7db29-124d-45d3-bd9f-3f12157b65a8
      volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
    - name: artifacts
      snapshot: 4505d375-a00d-4458-8601-7bc6968c8ff4
      volumeset: 1734c879-641c-41cd-92b5-f47704338a1d
```

The Docker Compose file that the SAM file leverages would be:

```yaml
version: '2'
services:
  web:
    image: clusterhq/moby-counter
    environment:
       - "USE_REDIS_HOST=redis"
    links:
      - redis
    ports:
      - "80:80"
    volumes:
      - artifacts:/myapp/artifacts/
  redis:
    image: redis:latest
    volumes:
       - 'redis-data:/data'
```

In this case, the CLI commands above would perform the necessary `pull` and `create`
commands with fli and manipulate the docker-compose file so that when it is brought up
it can be brought up with your snapshots layed out in the manifest.

- `artifacts` would become snapshot : `02d474fa-ab81-4bcb-8a61-a04214896b67`
- `redis-data` would become snapshot: `be4b53d2-a8cf-443f-a672-139b281acf8f`

### Notes

- You may run this from anywhere `docker-compose`, `docker` and `fli` are installed.
- Snapshots would need to be pushed to volumesets in ClusterHQ Flocker Hub using a manifest that references them, otherwise `pull` will fail.
